[Applause]
I'd like to thank you for leaving crazy
person out of the description so I
thought I try to think what is the most
useful thing that I could but what could
I say like that could actually helpful
or useful to you in the future and I
thought perhaps to tell the story of how
I sort of came to be here how did some
of these things happen and and maybe
there's some lessons there because I
often find myself wondering how did this
happen
so when I was young I I didn't really
know what I was going to do we're not
when I got older people kept asking me
and and but then eventually I thought
that the idea of inventing things would
be would be really cool and the reason I
thought that was because I read a quote
from Odyssey clock which said that a
sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic and and
that's really true if you think if you
go back say 300 years the things that we
take for granted today would be you'd be
burned at the stake for you know being
able to fly that's crazy
being able to see over long distances
being able to communicate having
effectively with the internet a a group
mind of sorts and having access to all
the world's information instantly from
almost anywhere in the earth this is the
stuff that that really would be magic
that would be considered magic in times
past in fact I think it actually goes
beyond that because there are many
things that we take for granted today
that weren't even imagined in times past
they weren't even in the realm of magic
so it actually goes goes beyond that so
I thought well you know if if I can do
some of those things basically if I can
advanced technology then that that's
like magic and I would be really cool
and the the I was at sort of a slight
existential crisis because I was trying
to figure out what does it all mean like
what's the purpose of things and I came
to the conclusion that if we can advance
the the knowledge of the world if we can
do things that expand the scope and and
scale of consciousness then we're better
able to ask the right questions and
become more enlightened and and that's
really the only way forward so so it's
like I studied physics and business
because I figured in order to do a lot
of these things you need to know how the
universe works and you need to know how
how the economy works and you also need
to built bring a lot of people together
to work with you to create something
because it's very difficult to do
something as as an individual if it's if
it's a significant technology so I
originally came out to California to try
to figure out how to improve the energy
density of electric vehicles basically
to try to figure out if there was an
advanced capacitor that could serve as
an alternative to batteries and that was
in 95 and that's also when the internet
started to happen and and I thought well
I can either pursue this tech this
technology where success maybe may not
be one of the possible outcomes which is
always tricky or participate in the
Internet and and be part of it so I
decided to drop out now as you
unfortunately we're past graduation so I
can't be accused of recommending that to
you
and so it's a did some internet stuff
you know put a few things here and there
what one of which was PayPal and I think
maybe it's helpful to say one of the
things that was important than in the
creation of PayPal was whispers kind of
how it started because initially the
initial thought was with PayPal was to
create an agglomeration of financial
services so if you have one place where
all your financial services needs would
be seamlessly integrated and and work
smoothly and then we had like a little
feature which was to do email payments
and whenever we'd show that show the
system off to someone would show the
hard part which was the the
agglomeration of financial services
which was quite difficult to put
together nobody was interested then we'd
show people email payments which was
actually quite easy and everybody was
interested so that this is I think it's
important to take feedback from your
environment you know it's it you want to
be as closed-loop as possible and so we
focused on email payments and really try
to make that work and and that's what
really got things to take off but if we
hadn't if we hadn't responded to what
people said then we probably would not
have been successful so it's important
to look for things like that
and and focus on them when when you when
you see them and you're correct your
your prior assumptions and then the
going from PayPal
I thought well what are some of the the
other problems that are likely to most
affect the future of humanity
it really wasn't from the perspective of
what what's the rank or did best way to
to make money which which is which is
okay but it was really what I think is
going to most affect the future humanity
so the I think the biggest terrestrial
problem we've got is sustainable energy
but the production and consumption of
energy in a sustainable manner
if we don't solve that this century is
the century where we're in deep trouble
and then the other one being the
extension of life beyond Earth to make
life multiplanetary so that's that
that's that's the basis for that the
latter is the basis force for SpaceX and
the former is the basis for Tesla and
SolarCity and and when I started SpaceX
I initially I thought that well is
there's no way one could possibly start
a rocket company I wasn't that crazy but
but then I thought well what is a way to
increase NASA's budget that was actually
my initial goal so I thought well if we
do a low-cost mission to Mars and the
COPE Amazo aces which would land seeds
with with dehydrate would receive some
dehydrated nutrient gel and you hydrate
them upon landing and then you'd have
this great sort of money shot of green
plants on a red background and the the
public tends to respond to presidents
and superlatives and this would be the
first life on Mars the farthest that
life's ever traveled as far as we know
and and I thought well that that would
get people really excited and and and
therefore increase with NASA's budget so
so obviously the financial outcome from
such a mission would probably be zero so
anything better than that was on the
upside
and so I actually went to I went to
Russia three times to look at buying a
refurbished ICBM because that was the
best deal and I can tell you it was very
weird going there in 2000 late 2001 2002
going to the Russian rocket forces and
saying I'd like to buy two of your
biggest rockets but you can keep the
nuke that's a lot more and this that was
10 years ago I guess so
they they I think they they thought I
was crazy but but I did have money so
that was that was okay and after making
several trips to to Russia
I came to conclusion that that actually
my initial impression was was wrong
about because my initial thought was
well that that there's not enough will
to explore and expand beyond Earth and
have a Mars base and that kind of thing
but I can't Christian that that that was
wrong
in fact there's plenty of will
particularly in the United States
because the United States is a nation of
explorers the people who came here from
from other parts of the world I think
the United States really a just a
distillation of the spirit of human
exploration so but but if people think
it's impossible then or it's going to
completely break the federal budget then
they're not going to do it so after my
third trip I said okay well what we
really need to do here is try to solve
the space transport problem and and
started SpaceX and this list was against
the advice of pretty much everyone I
talked to what one friend made me sit
down and watch a bunch of videos of
rockets blowing up
let me tell you he wasn't far wrong
I think there was it was tough going
there in the beginning because I'd never
built anything physical I mean I'd both
like little model rockets as a kid and
that kind of thing but I never had a
company that built in any physical said
have to figure out how to how to do all
these things and and bring together the
right team of people and and and so we
we did all that and and then failed
three times it was tough tough going
because thinking about a rocket is that
the passing grade is a hundred percent
and you don't get to actually test the
rocket in the real environment that is
going to be in so I think to the best
analogy for for rocket engineering is
it's like if you want to create a really
pump complicated but a software you
can't run the software as an integrated
whole and you can't run it on the
computer it's intended to run on but the
first time you put it all together and
write it on that computer it must run
with no bugs that's that's basically the
essence of it so we missed the mark
there that the first launch I was
picking up butts of rocket near the new
launch scientist but sad and but we
learned with with each success of flight
and and were able to with eventually
with the fourth flight in 2008 reach
orbit and that was also with the last
bit of money that we had so they thank
goodness that that happened it I think
this thing's both times to charm
so that's we got the Falcon went orbit
and then began to scale that up to to
the Falcon 9 which is about an order of
magnitude more thrust it's a around a
million pounds of thrust and we managed
to get that to orbit and then developed
Dragon spacecraft which recently was
able to dock and return to Earth from
the space station that was thanks I was
a white knuckled event so yeah it's a
huge relief still can't quite believe it
actually happened but but there's a lot
more that must happen beyond this in
order for humanity to become a
spacefaring civilization and ultimately
a multi-planet species and that's
something I think it's it's it's vitally
important and and I hope that that some
of you will participate in that either
at SpaceX or at other companies because
it's just really one of the most
important things for the preservation
and extension of consciousness and it's
worth noting as I'm sure people are
aware that the earth has been around for
four billion years and civilization at
least in terms of having writing has
been around for ten thousand years and
that's being generous so it's it's
really it's sort of a tenuous existence
that that civilization and and
consciousness as we know it is there's
been on earth and I think I'm actually
I'm actually fairly optimistic about the
future of Earth so I don't want to I'd
want to sort of people to have the wrong
impression that I think we're all about
to die I think I think well I think
things will most likely be okay for a
look for a long time on earth but not
not for sure but most likely
but even if it's if it's sort of 99%
likely one a 1% chance it's still it's
still worth spending a fair bit of
effort to ensure that we have we've
backed up the biosphere in a planetary
redundancy if you will and and so I
think I think it's really really quite
important and in order to that there's a
breakthrough that needs to occur which
is to create a rapidly and completely
reusable transport system to Mars which
which is one of those things that's
right on the borderline of of impossible
but that that's sort of the thing that
we're we're going to try to achieve
there with with with SpaceX and then on
the on the on the Tesla front the goal
with Tesla was really to try to show
that what what electric cars can do
because people had the wrong impression
we had to change people's perception of
an electric vehicle because they used to
think of it as something that was slow
and ugly and had low range can like a
golf cart and whoop so that's why we
created the Tesla Roadster to show that
you can be fast attractive and and long
range and it's amazing how even though
you can show that something works on
paper you know and the calculations are
very clear until you actually have the
physical object and they can they can
drive it it doesn't really sink in for
people and so that that I think is is
something worth noting if you're going
to create a company the first thing you
should try to do is create a working
prototype your everything everything
looks great on PowerPoint you can make
anything work on PowerPoint but if you
have an actual demonstration article
even if it's in primitive form that's
much much more effective for convincing
people so so we made the Tesla Roadster
and now we're coming out soon with the
Model S which is a four-door sedan
because after we made the Tesla Roadster
people said oh sure sure we always knew
you could make a car like that it's an
expensive car and it's low volume and
it's small and all that but you can make
a real car like
okay fine you're gonna make that two so
that that's coming out soon and yeah so
that that's that that's that's the I
think the the word where things are and
and and hopefully that there are some
lessons to be to be drawn there but I I
think the overarching point I want to
make is that you guys are the magicians
of the 21st century
you know don't like anything hold you
back
imagination is the limit and go out
there and create some magic thank you
[Applause]
I'd like to thank you for leaving crazy
person out of the description so I
thought I try to think what is the most
useful thing that I could what could I
say like that could actually helpful or
useful to you in the future
and I thought perhaps tell the story of
how I sort of came to be here how did
some of these things happen and and
maybe there's some lessons there because
I often find myself wondering how did
this happen so when I was young I I I
didn't really know what I was going to
do we're not when I got older people
kept asking me and and but but then
eventually I thought the idea of
inventing things would be would be
really cool and the reason I thought
that was because I read a quote from
Odyssey clock which said that a
sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic and and
that's really true if you think if you
go back say 300 years the things that we
take for granted today would be you'd be
burned at the stake for you know being
able to fly that's crazy
being able to see over long distances
being able to communicate having
effectively with the internet a a group
mind of sorts and having access to all
the world's information instantly from
almost anywhere in the earth this is the
stuff that that really would be magic it
would be considered magic in times past
in fact I think it actually goes beyond
that because there are many things that
we take for granted today that weren't
even imagined in times past they weren't
even in the realm of magic so it
actually goes goes beyond that so I
thought well you know if if I can do
some of those things basically if I can
advanced technology then that that's
like magic and I would be really cool
and the the I always had sort of a
slight existential crisis because I was
trying to figure out what does it all
mean like what's the purpose of things
and I came to the conclusion that if we
can advance the the knowledge of the
world if we can do things that expand
the scope and and scale of consciousness
then we're better able to ask the right
questions and become more enlightened
and and that's really the only way
forward so so it's like I studied
physics and business because I figured
in order to do a lot of these things you
need to know how the universe works and
you need to know how how the economy
works and you also need to built bring a
lot of people together to work with you
to create something because it's very
difficult to do something as as an
individual if it's if it's a significant
technology so I originally came out to
California to try to figure out how to
improve the energy density of electric
vehicles basically to try to figure out
if there was an advanced capacitor that
I could serve as an alternative to
batteries and that was in 95 and that's
also when the internet started to happen
and and it I I thought well I can either
pursue this tech this technology where
success may be may not be one of the
possible outcomes which is always tricky
or participate in the internet and and
be part of it so I decided to drop out
now is the you unfortunately we're past
graduation so I can't be accused of
recommending that to you
and so did some internet stuff you know
they've put a few things here and there
what one of which is PayPal and I think
maybe it's helpful to say one of the
things that was important than in the
creation of PayPal was whiskey was kind
of how it started because initially the
initial thought was with PayPal was to
create an agglomeration of financial
services so if you have one place where
all your financial services needs would
be seamlessly integrated and and work
smoothly and then we had like a little
feature which was through email payments
and whenever we'd show that show the
system off to someone would show the
hard part which was the the
agglomeration of financial services
which was quite difficult to